h1. luks_backup module for Puppet

German version is in the File "LiesMich.textile":LiesMich.textile

Puppet module for running encrypted backup via ssh to a Rasperry PI

# https://github.com/bup/bup
# git-annex http://git-annex.branchable.com/
# /etc/ssh/sshd_config mit
# AllowUsers bob alic
# PasswordAuthentication no
# PermitRootLogin without_password

h2. Examples

* To install the luks_backup:

    @class { 'luks_backup': }@

h2. Standalone use

As using Puppet to manage a rasperry PI might be an overkill there is helper script which installs the scripts into /usr/local/bin

h3. Prerequisites for standalone

bc. sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude safe-upgrade
sudo aptitude install git cryptsetup ruby anacron rsnapshot
git clone https://github.com/ngiger/puppet-luks_backup luks_backup
cd luks_backup
sudo ./install_into_user_local_bin

h3. Prerequisites for standalone backup from remove server via ssh

We assume that we want to backup from a remote server using using the username backup via rsync and ssh.  backup@server.exampl.com.
We will use the root user to be able to run the backup in cron job.

bc. sudo ssh-keygen -f /etc/backup.ssh # Don't enter a passphrase
sudo ssh-copy-id backup@server.exampl.com # or copy the content of /etc/backup.ssh.pub to the ~/.ssh/authorized_keys file
# sudo ssh -i /etc/backup.ssh -p 3333 niklaus@praxis.schoenbucher.ch 

h3.Preparing an USB hard-disk for encrypted backups

Plug-in any suitable USB-hard disk. Running @dmesg | tail@ should give you an idea about the hard disk partition to use.
We assume /dev/sda1 here. Run @/usr/local/bin/backup_encrypted.sh --device /dev/sda1@. This may take a long time (several hours).

Many minutes will be needed to collect enough entropy to create the /etc/id.encryptd keyfile. $
Once this step is complete, you will be asked to confirm erasing the desired partition. Enter YES as prompted.
Formatting the hard disk is also time consuming. Afterwards you should run the following commands @sudo chown root:backup /etc/backup.key && sudo chmod 0600 /etc/backup.key@

h3. Running the backup automatically

It might be a good idee to create a file @/etc/cron.daily/backup_from_remote_server@ with the following content

bc. sudo -i /usr/local/bin/backup_encrypted.rb --ssh backup@server.exampl.com /home > /dev/null 2>&1
sudo rsync --delete --exclude ungesichert -avzbe ssh -i /etc/backup.ssh -p 3333 niklaus@praxis.schoenbucher.ch:/home/niklaus /mnt/encrypted/backup/niklaus --backup-dir=/mnt/encrypted/backup/old

This will ensure that desired directories are backuped regularly.

h3. Checking

In the file @/var/log/rsnapshot.log@ you will find the log of all backups.

install rsnapshot
/home/samba
/backup/postgresql/

sshd_config
PermitRootLogin no
AllowUsers backup niklaus sbu


h2. License

Copyright 2014, niklaus.giger@member.fsf.org

This program is free software; you can redistribute  it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 3 as published by the Free Software Foundation.

